so in this video we're going to talk
about ways to describe skin lesions
let's begin with a macula a macula
described as a flat circumscribed
alteration in skin color an example of a
macula is a freckle a papule is a
circumscribed palpable elevation less
than five millimeters in diameter an
example of this is a mole the one up
from a papule is known as a nodule a
nodule is a circumscribed palpable
elevation greater than five millimeters
in diameter an example of a nodule is a
wart if the lesion contains fluid this
can be referred to as a vesicle as long
as it is a small collection of fluid
below the dermis and it's less than five
millimeters in diameter an example this
is a blister caused by the human simplex
virus if the fluid is greater if the
blister you can say is greater than five
millimeters it can be referred to as a
bulla bulla is a large collection of
fluid below the epidermis greater than
five millimeters
an example of this is a burned blister
remember that vesicle and a bulla are
collection of fluid below the epidermis
a pustule is pus postural is a visible
collection of pus and a pustule can be a
acne for example a lesion can also
contain fluid within the dermis layer
not the epidermis but the dermis and
this is known as a wheel so a wheel is
an area of dermal edema an example of
this a wheel condition is known as hives
which is an allergic reaction a plaque
is a palpable raised flat disc shaped
lesion and it's often solid an example
of a plaque lesion is can be seen is in
psoriasis if the lesion skin lesion
looks crushed
we can use the term crust a crust is
defined as dried serum and exudate an
example of crust lesion is we can see in
impetigo and Patito residues scales can
also be used scales is defined as an
accumulation of excess keratin this can
be seen in dandruff dandruff is or is an
example of scales finally it term that
we should be all familiar with is ulcer
and ulcers can be found in the skin in
the gut because these are these ulcers
occur on epithelial cells an ulcer is
described as a circumscribed loss of
tissue
an example is ARP is a pressure ulcer so
those are some terminologies or terms
used to describe lesions again MACUL
papule nodule postulate crust scale and
also so that was it for those through
this video waste two terms used to
describe skin lesions next we will look
at some common skin disorders and
hopefully incorporate some of these
terms to describe the common skin
disorders thanks for watching